We use visited[] array

Applications of BFS

Shortest Path and Minimum Spanning Tree for unweighted graph In an unweighted graph, the shortest path is the path with least number of edges. With Breadth First, we always reach a vertex from given source using the minimum number of edges. Also, in case of unweighted graphs, any spanning tree is Minimum Spanning Tree and we can use either Depth or Breadth first traversal for finding a spanning tree.
Peer to Peer Networks. In Peer to Peer Networks like BitTorrent, Breadth First Search is used to find all neighbor nodes.
Crawlers in Search Engines: Crawlers build index using Breadth First. The idea is to start from source page and follow all links from source and keep doing same. Depth First Traversal can also be used for crawlers, but the advantage with Breadth First Traversal is, depth or levels of the built tree can be limited.
Social Networking Websites: In social networks, we can find people within a given distance 'k' from a person using Breadth First Search till 'k' levels.
GPS Navigation systems: Breadth First Search is used to find all neighboring locations.
Broadcasting in Network: In networks, a broadcasted packet follows Breadth First Search to reach all nodes.
In Garbage Collection: Breadth First Search is used in copying garbage collection using Cheney's algorithm. Refer this and for details. Breadth First Search is preferred over Depth First Search because of better locality of reference:
Cycle detection in undirected graph: In undirected graphs, either Breadth First Search or Depth First Search can be used to detect cycle. We can use BFS to detect cycle in a directed graph also,
 Ford–Fulkerson algorithm In Ford-Fulkerson algorithm, we can either use Breadth First or Depth First Traversal to find the maximum flow. Breadth First Traversal is preferred as it reduces worst case time complexity to O(VE2).
To test if a graph is Bipartite We can either use Breadth First or Depth First Traversal.
Path Finding We can either use Breadth First or Depth First Traversal to find if there is a path between two vertices.
Finding all nodes within one connected component: We can either use Breadth First or Depth First Traversal to find all nodes reachable from a given node.

Applications of DFS
===================

1. Detecting cycle in a graph: A graph has a cycle if and only if we see a back edge during DFS. So we can run DFS for the graph and check for back edges.

2. Path Finding: We can specialize the DFS algorithm to find a path between two given vertices u and z.

Call DFS(G, u) with u as the start vertex.
Use a stack S to keep track of the path between the start vertex and the current vertex.
As soon as destination vertex z is encountered, return the path as the contents of the stack
3. Topological Sorting: Topological Sorting is mainly used for scheduling jobs from the given dependencies among jobs. In computer science, applications of this type arise in instruction scheduling, ordering of formula cell evaluation when recomputing formula values in spreadsheets, logic synthesis, determining the order of compilation tasks to perform in makefiles, data serialization, and resolving symbol dependencies in linkers.

4. To test if a graph is bipartite: We can augment either BFS or DFS when we first discover a new vertex, color it opposite its parents, and for each other edge, check it doesn’t link two vertices of the same color. The first vertex in any connected component can be red or black.

5. Finding Strongly Connected Components of a Graph: A directed graph is called strongly connected if there is a path from each vertex in the graph to every other vertex. (See this for DFS-based algo for finding Strongly Connected Components)

6. Solving puzzles with only one solution: such as mazes. (DFS can be adapted to find all solutions to a maze by only including nodes on the current path in the visited set.).

7. Web crawlers: Depth-first search can be used in the implementation of web crawlers to explore the links on a website.

8. Maze generation: Depth-first search can be used to generate random mazes.

9. Model checking: Depth-first search can be used in model checking, which is the process of checking that a model of a system meets a certain set of properties.

10. Backtracking: Depth-first search can be used in backtracking algorithms.



--------------------------------------------
Topological sorting (Kahn's algorithm)

For Topological sorting, it should necessarily be a Directed Acyclic Graph


DFS tree
========
DiscoveryTime
Low value : smallest reachable discovery time